docker/web-app/README.md, before:

# WebApp Directory Structure

Create these files in your `/web-app` directory:

For provisioning the full stack, follow the [Provisioning Quickstart](../../docs/provisioning.md).

## Signup Flow

The `/signup` page creates a personal tenant and stores the tenant ID in the
auth session. After signup, users are routed to `/{tenant}/dashboard` and can
choose to create an organization or invite members.

Test locally with:

```bash
# run the dev server (binds 0.0.0.0 so LAN devices can connect)

cd docker/web-app
npm run dev

# start the tenancy API (port 8082)
uvicorn tenancy.app:app --port 8082
# or: docker compose up tenancy

# in another shell invoke the tenancy API via the web-app proxy
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/tenancy \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"name":"Demo","email":"demo@example.com"}'
```

Then open http://localhost:3000/signup in your browser.

### Refreshing dependencies

Regenerate `package-lock.json` when dependencies change:

```bash
npm run refresh-lock
```

### Trim Idle render endpoint

You can exercise the stub MP4 render via:

```bash
curl -F "file=@demo.mp4" -F "sequence=@sequence.json" http://localhost:3000/api/video/render-sequence -o out.mp4
```

## Library Stats Endpoint

During development you can query library statistics via:

```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/api/library/stats
```

If `MEDIA_API_BASE_URL` is set, the web-app proxy will attempt to fetch
real data from the Go `media-api` service; otherwise it returns stub
data to aid client integration.

## Development Tools

- TanStack React Query Devtools are disabled by default (set `NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_REACT_DEVTOOLS=1` to enable) and are automatically disabled on mobile clients to avoid popup errors.
- A React DevTools server also runs in development; visit
  http://localhost:8097 to inspect component trees without installing a
  browser extension.

## Core Configuration Files

```
web-app/
├── Dockerfile                    # Already provided above
├── package.json                  # Already provided above
├── next.config.mjs               # Already provided above
├── tsconfig.json                # TypeScript config
├── tailwind.config.js           # Tailwind CSS config
├── postcss.config.js            # PostCSS config
└── .env.local                   # Local environment variables
```

## Application Structure (Next.js 13+ App Router)

```
web-app/.
├── Dockerfile
├── next.config.mjs
├── next-env.d.ts
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
├── packages
│   └── eventbus
│       ├── index.js
│       └── index.test.js
├── postcss.config.js
├── public
│   └── demo
│       └── bars720p30.mp4
├── README.md
├── src
│   ├── app
│   │   ├── api
│   │   │   ├── health
│   │   │   │   └── route.ts
│   │   │   ├── […path]
│   │   │   │   └── route.ts
│   │   │   └── schemas
│   │   │       └── route.ts
│   │   ├── [tenant]
│   │   │   └── dashboard
│   │   │       ├── camera-monitor
│   │   │   │   ├── layout.tsx
│   │   │   │   └── page.tsx
│   │   │       ├── dam-explorer
│   │   │       │   └── page.tsx
│   │   │       ├── ffmpeg
│   │   │       │   └── page.tsx
│   │   │       ├── layout.tsx
│   │   │       ├── live
│   │   │   │   └── page.tsx
│   │   │   ├── motion
│   │   │   │   └── page.tsx
│   │   │   ├── page.tsx
│   │   │   ├── README.md
│   │   │   └── witness
│   │   │       └── page.tsx
│   │   ├── layout.tsx
│   │   ├── page.tsx
│   │   └── schemas
│   │       └── page.tsx
│   ├── components
│   │   ├── CameraMonitor.tsx
│   │   ├── Cards.tsx
│   │   ├── DAMApp.tsx
│   │   ├── DAMExplorer.tsx
│   │   ├── dashboardTools.tsx
│   │   ├── ExplorerCard.tsx
│   │   ├── LayeredFS
│   │   │   ├── LayeredExplorer.tsx
│   │   │   ├── layout.ts
│   │   │   └── types.ts
│   │   ├── modals
│   │   │   ├── ActionSheet.tsx
│   │   │   ├── CameraMonitorModal.tsx
│   │   │   └── DAMExplorerModal.tsx
│   │   ├── overlays
│   │   │   ├── FalseColorOverlay.tsx
│   │   │   ├── FocusPeakingOverlay.tsx
│   │   │   ├── HistogramMonitor.tsx
│   │   │   ├── WaveformMonitor.tsx
│   │   │   └── ZebraOverlay.tsx
│   │   ├── primitives
│   │   │   ├── Container.tsx
│   │   │   ├── SelectableItem.tsx
│   │   │   └── Stack.tsx
│   │   ├── README.md
│   │   ├── RecordButton.tsx
│   │   ├── SearchBarExtension.tsx
│   │   ├── Sidebar.tsx
│   │   ├── TagPopover.tsx
│   │   ├── __tests__
│   │   │   ├── AnalyticsCard.test.tsx
│   │   │   ├── CameraMonitor.test.ts
│   │   │   ├── Cards.test.tsx
│   │   │   ├── FFmpegConsole.test.tsx
│   │   │   ├── LayeredExplorer.test.tsx
│   │   │   ├── LayeredLayout.test.ts
│   │   │   ├── MotionExtract.test.tsx
│   │   │   ├── ToolCard.test.tsx
│   │   │   └── TopBar.test.tsx
│   │   ├── ToolCard.tsx
│   │   ├── tools
│   │   │   ├── AnalyticsCard.tsx
│   │   │   ├── FFmpegConsole.tsx
│   │   │   └── MotionExtract.tsx
│   │   └── TopBar.tsx
│   ├── context
│   │   └── ThemeContext.tsx
│   ├── hooks
│   │   ├── __tests__
│   │   │   ├── useCameraStream.test.ts
│   │   │   └── useIntelligentLayout.test.tsx
│   │   ├── useCameraStream.ts
│   │   ├── useEvent.ts
│   │   ├── useInputGesture.ts
│   │   ├── useIntelligentLayout.ts
│   │   ├── useLiveRecorder.ts
│   │   ├── useMediaRecorder.ts
│   │   ├── useSidebar.tsx
│   │   ├── useTheme.ts
│   │   ├── useTimecode.ts
│   │   └── useWsFrame.ts
│   ├── lib
│   │   ├── apiAssets.ts
│   │   ├── eventBus.ts
│   │   ├── networkConfig.ts
│   │   ├── serviceUp.js
│   │   ├── useVideoEvents.ts
│   │   ├── useVideoSocket.ts
│   │   ├── useVideoWs.ts
│   │   ├── videoApi.ts
│   │   ├── videoQueries.ts
│   │   └── video.ts
│   ├── providers
│   │   ├── AppProviders.tsx
│   │   ├── AssetProvider.tsx
│   │   ├── CaptureContext.tsx
│   │   ├── CaptureProvider.tsx
│   │   ├── ModalProvider.tsx
│   │   ├── README.md
│   │   └── VideoSocketProvider.tsx
│   ├── state
│   │   ├── selection.test.ts
│   │   └── selection.ts
│   ├── styles
│   │   ├── globals.css
│   │   ├── README.md
│   │   ├── theme.ts
│   │   └── tokens.css
│   ├── tools
│   │   ├── dam-explorer
│   │   │   └── actions.ts
│   │   └── motion
│   │       └── actions.ts
│   └── types
│       └── actions.ts
├── start.js
├── tailwind.config.js
├── tsconfig.json
├── .env.local
├── public/
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── logo.svg
│   └── images/
├── App/
│   ├── [tenant]/
│   │   └── Dashboard/
│   │       ├── page.tsx             # Dashboard overview
│   │       ├── CameraMonitor/
│   │       │   └── page.tsx         # Fullscreen Camera Monitor
│   │       ├── AssetExplorer/
│   │       │   └── page.tsx         # Fullscreen Asset Explorer
│   │       └── ...                  # (Any other dashboard tools/features)
├── Components/
│   ├── CameraMonitor/
│   ├── DAMApp/
│   ├── DAMExplorer/
│   ├── Sidebar.tsx
│   ├── TopBar.tsx
│   ├── ModalCard.tsx
│   └── ...
├── Styles/
│   └── globals.css
└── tsconfig.test.json

39 directories, 112 files

```

## Quick Start Commands

### Used Command

```
docker build \
  --platform linux/arm64 \
  --target development \  -t cdaprod/video-web:dev \
  .
```

1. **Initialize the web-app directory:**

   ```bash
   mkdir web-app
   cd web-app
   npm init -y
   npm install next@14.0.4 react@^18.2.0 react-dom@^18.2.0 typescript @types/node @types react @types/react-dom
   ```

1. **Start development:**

   ```bash
   # From project root
   docker-compose up web-app
   ```

1. **Access the application:**

- Web App: http://localhost:3000
- API: http://localhost:8080

## Development Workflow

- **Hot Reload**: Changes to files in `/web-app` will automatically reload the container
- **API Integration**: Use `/api/video/*` routes to proxy to your Python API
- **Build for Production**: Use `target: production` in Docker Compose for optimized builds

## Environment Variables

Create `/web-app/.env.local` for local development:

```env
API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080
NEXT_PUBLIC_WS_URL=ws://localhost:8080/ws
TENANCY_URL=http://localhost:8082/tenants
NODE_ENV=development
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=changeme
# Set to "true" to enable verbose NextAuth logs
NEXTAUTH_DEBUG=false
```

## API Mappings

Dashboard views map to service APIs as follows:

- Nodes & Plans → Supervisor (`/v1/nodes/*`, `/v1/bootstrap/*`)
- Events → Broker topics (`overlay.*`, `capture.*`, `video.*`, `webapp.*`)
- Capture devices → capture-daemon API (`/hwcapture/*`)
- Jobs & Search → media-api (`/v1/*`)
- Trim / Idle Module → media-api (`/v1/trim_idle`)
- Observability → service `/health` and `/metrics` endpoints
- Credentials, Webhooks, Billing → api-gateway
- Access Control → api-gateway (`/credentials`)

All requests flow through the typed clients in `src/lib/api`, generated via `yarn run generate-api` for a single source of truth.

## Authentication

`AuthProvider` wraps the app and injects a bearer token into every API call via `src/lib/api`. Use it to handle login/logout and expose user context. Calling `logout()` also invokes NextAuth's `signOut` to clear server-side session cookies and redirect back to `/login`.
Google SSO is provided by NextAuth. Configure the following environment variables in `.env.local` or deployment secrets:

```
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=<32B random>
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=
TENANT_DEFAULT_ALLOWED_DOMAINS=cdaprod.dev,example.com
```

Users sign in at `/login` and manage personal details under `/account`.
The login page renders an official “Sign in with Google” button. Pass `dark` to
`<GoogleSignInButton>` when using a dark background.

When `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` are unset in development, the
app falls back to a basic email-only credentials provider so you can sign in
without configuring OAuth. The `/login` page automatically renders a simple
development form for signing in.

## Pairing local nodes

Local deployments pair with the cloud tenancy through an `auth-bridge` service.
Accessing tenant dashboards, access control or settings pages without a
`node_session` cookie automatically redirects to `/pair`. The pairing page shows
a short code and polling status; once the code is approved in the cloud UI, the
bridge sets the session cookie and redirects back to the requested page.


## Streaming protocol

`CameraMonitor` probes `/hwcapture/features` at runtime to determine whether the
capture-daemon exposes WebRTC. When available, it negotiates a WHEP session via
`/whep/<room>` to receive full‑res H.264 without transcoding; otherwise it falls
back to the HLS preview.

The monitor view automatically adjusts to device orientation. On portrait
screens the video fills the top of the display and controls stack beneath it,
eliminating the need to scroll.

Recording is controlled via simple HTTP calls:

```
curl -X POST http://<host>/daemon/record/start
curl -X POST http://<host>/daemon/record/stop
```

## Tenant routing

Pages are served under a dynamic `[tenant]` segment. Visiting
`/acme/dashboard` wraps the app in a `TenantProvider` so child components can
read the current tenant via `useTenant()`.

Visiting `/` automatically redirects to the user's default tenant dashboard or `/login` when no session is present.

```tsx
import { useTenant } from '@/providers/TenantProvider'

export function LinkToAssets() {
  const tenant = useTenant()
  return <a href={`/${tenant}/assets`}>Assets</a>
}
```

Components and API calls should incorporate this tenant when building URLs so
backend services can serve tenant‑specific resources or enforce authentication.

## Provisioning a Device

1. Navigate to **Dashboard → Camera Monitor**.
2. Click **Provision Device**.
3. Copy the displayed join command and run it on the target device. The modal watches `/api/claims/{id}/watch` and updates once the device connects.

Commit message:

fix(web-app): defer tenant cookie and allow custom dev origins

docker/web-app/README.md, after:

# WebApp Directory Structure

Create these files in your `/web-app` directory:

For provisioning the full stack, follow the [Provisioning Quickstart](../../docs/provisioning.md).

## Signup Flow

The `/signup` page creates a personal tenant and stores the tenant ID in the
auth session. After signup, users are routed to `/{tenant}/dashboard` and can
choose to create an organization or invite members.

Test locally with:

```bash
# run the dev server (binds 0.0.0.0 so LAN devices can connect)

cd docker/web-app
npm run dev

# start the tenancy API (port 8082)
uvicorn tenancy.app:app --port 8082
# or: docker compose up tenancy

# in another shell invoke the tenancy API via the web-app proxy
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/tenancy \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"name":"Demo","email":"demo@example.com"}'
```

Then open http://localhost:3000/signup in your browser.

### Refreshing dependencies

Regenerate `package-lock.json` when dependencies change:

```bash
npm run refresh-lock
```

### Trim Idle render endpoint

You can exercise the stub MP4 render via:

```bash
curl -F "file=@demo.mp4" -F "sequence=@sequence.json" http://localhost:3000/api/video/render-sequence -o out.mp4
```

## Library Stats Endpoint

During development you can query library statistics via:

```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/api/library/stats
```

If `MEDIA_API_BASE_URL` is set, the web-app proxy will attempt to fetch
real data from the Go `media-api` service; otherwise it returns stub
data to aid client integration.

## Development Tools

- TanStack React Query Devtools are disabled by default (set `NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_REACT_DEVTOOLS=1` to enable) and are automatically disabled on mobile clients to avoid popup errors.
- A React DevTools server also runs in development; visit
  http://localhost:8097 to inspect component trees without installing a
  browser extension.

## Core Configuration Files

```
web-app/
├── Dockerfile                    # Already provided above
├── package.json                  # Already provided above
├── next.config.mjs               # Already provided above
├── tsconfig.json                # TypeScript config
├── tailwind.config.js           # Tailwind CSS config
├── postcss.config.js            # PostCSS config
└── .env.local                   # Local environment variables
```

## Application Structure (Next.js 13+ App Router)

```
web-app/.
├── Dockerfile
├── next.config.mjs
├── next-env.d.ts
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
├── packages
│   └── eventbus
│       ├── index.js
│       └── index.test.js
├── postcss.config.js
├── public
│   └── demo
│       └── bars720p30.mp4
├── README.md
├── src
│   ├── app
│   │   ├── api
│   │   │   ├── health
│   │   │   │   └── route.ts
│   │   │   ├── […path]
│   │   │   │   └── route.ts
│   │   │   └── schemas
│   │   │       └── route.ts
│   │   ├── [tenant]
│   │   │   └── dashboard
│   │   │       ├── camera-monitor
│   │   │   │   ├── layout.tsx
│   │   │   │   └── page.tsx
│   │   │       ├── dam-explorer
│   │   │       │   └── page.tsx
│   │   │       ├── ffmpeg
│   │   │       │   └── page.tsx
│   │   │       ├── layout.tsx
│   │   │       ├── live
│   │   │   │   └── page.tsx
│   │   │   ├── motion
│   │   │   │   └── page.tsx
│   │   │   ├── page.tsx
│   │   │   ├── README.md
│   │   │   └── witness
│   │   │       └── page.tsx
│   │   ├── layout.tsx
│   │   ├── page.tsx
│   │   └── schemas
│   │       └── page.tsx
│   ├── components
│   │   ├── CameraMonitor.tsx
│   │   ├── Cards.tsx
│   │   ├── DAMApp.tsx
│   │   ├── DAMExplorer.tsx
│   │   ├── dashboardTools.tsx
│   │   ├── ExplorerCard.tsx
│   │   ├── LayeredFS
│   │   │   ├── LayeredExplorer.tsx
│   │   │   ├── layout.ts
│   │   │   └── types.ts
│   │   ├── modals
│   │   │   ├── ActionSheet.tsx
│   │   │   ├── CameraMonitorModal.tsx
│   │   │   └── DAMExplorerModal.tsx
│   │   ├── overlays
│   │   │   ├── FalseColorOverlay.tsx
│   │   │   ├── FocusPeakingOverlay.tsx
│   │   │   ├── HistogramMonitor.tsx
│   │   │   ├── WaveformMonitor.tsx
│   │   │   └── ZebraOverlay.tsx
│   │   ├── primitives
│   │   │   ├── Container.tsx
│   │   │   ├── SelectableItem.tsx
│   │   │   └── Stack.tsx
│   │   ├── README.md
│   │   ├── RecordButton.tsx
│   │   ├── SearchBarExtension.tsx
│   │   ├── Sidebar.tsx
│   │   ├── TagPopover.tsx
│   │   ├── __tests__
│   │   │   ├── AnalyticsCard.test.tsx
│   │   │   ├── CameraMonitor.test.ts
│   │   │   ├── Cards.test.tsx
│   │   │   ├── FFmpegConsole.test.tsx
│   │   │   ├── LayeredExplorer.test.tsx
│   │   │   ├── LayeredLayout.test.ts
│   │   │   ├── MotionExtract.test.tsx
│   │   │   ├── ToolCard.test.tsx
│   │   │   └── TopBar.test.tsx
│   │   ├── ToolCard.tsx
│   │   ├── tools
│   │   │   ├── AnalyticsCard.tsx
│   │   │   ├── FFmpegConsole.tsx
│   │   │   └── MotionExtract.tsx
│   │   └── TopBar.tsx
│   ├── context
│   │   └── ThemeContext.tsx
│   ├── hooks
│   │   ├── __tests__
│   │   │   ├── useCameraStream.test.ts
│   │   │   └── useIntelligentLayout.test.tsx
│   │   ├── useCameraStream.ts
│   │   ├── useEvent.ts
│   │   ├── useInputGesture.ts
│   │   ├── useIntelligentLayout.ts
│   │   ├── useLiveRecorder.ts
│   │   ├── useMediaRecorder.ts
│   │   ├── useSidebar.tsx
│   │   ├── useTheme.ts
│   │   ├── useTimecode.ts
│   │   └── useWsFrame.ts
│   ├── lib
│   │   ├── apiAssets.ts
│   │   ├── eventBus.ts
│   │   ├── networkConfig.ts
│   │   ├── serviceUp.js
│   │   ├── useVideoEvents.ts
│   │   ├── useVideoSocket.ts
│   │   ├── useVideoWs.ts
│   │   ├── videoApi.ts
│   │   ├── videoQueries.ts
│   │   └── video.ts
│   ├── providers
│   │   ├── AppProviders.tsx
│   │   ├── AssetProvider.tsx
│   │   ├── CaptureContext.tsx
│   │   ├── CaptureProvider.tsx
│   │   ├── ModalProvider.tsx
│   │   ├── README.md
│   │   └── VideoSocketProvider.tsx
│   ├── state
│   │   ├── selection.test.ts
│   │   └── selection.ts
│   ├── styles
│   │   ├── globals.css
│   │   ├── README.md
│   │   ├── theme.ts
│   │   └── tokens.css
│   ├── tools
│   │   ├── dam-explorer
│   │   │   └── actions.ts
│   │   └── motion
│   │       └── actions.ts
│   └── types
│       └── actions.ts
├── start.js
├── tailwind.config.js
├── tsconfig.json
├── .env.local
├── public/
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── logo.svg
│   └── images/
├── App/
│   ├── [tenant]/
│   │   └── Dashboard/
│   │       ├── page.tsx             # Dashboard overview
│   │       ├── CameraMonitor/
│   │       │   └── page.tsx         # Fullscreen Camera Monitor
│   │       ├── AssetExplorer/
│   │       │   └── page.tsx         # Fullscreen Asset Explorer
│   │       └── ...                  # (Any other dashboard tools/features)
├── Components/
│   ├── CameraMonitor/
│   ├── DAMApp/
│   ├── DAMExplorer/
│   ├── Sidebar.tsx
│   ├── TopBar.tsx
│   ├── ModalCard.tsx
│   └── ...
├── Styles/
│   └── globals.css
└── tsconfig.test.json

39 directories, 112 files

```

## Quick Start Commands

### Used Command

```
docker build \
  --platform linux/arm64 \
  --target development \  -t cdaprod/video-web:dev \
  .
```

1. **Initialize the web-app directory:**

   ```bash
   mkdir web-app
   cd web-app
   npm init -y
   npm install next@14.0.4 react@^18.2.0 react-dom@^18.2.0 typescript @types/node @types react @types/react-dom
   ```

1. **Start development:**

   ```bash
   # From project root
   docker-compose up web-app
   ```

1. **Access the application:**

- Web App: http://localhost:3000
- API: http://localhost:8080

## Development Workflow

- **Hot Reload**: Changes to files in `/web-app` will automatically reload the container
- **API Integration**: Use `/api/video/*` routes to proxy to your Python API
- **Build for Production**: Use `target: production` in Docker Compose for optimized builds

## Environment Variables

Create `/web-app/.env.local` for local development:

```env
API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080
NEXT_PUBLIC_WS_URL=ws://localhost:8080/ws
TENANCY_URL=http://localhost:8082/tenants
NODE_ENV=development
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=changeme
# Set to "true" to enable verbose NextAuth logs
NEXTAUTH_DEBUG=false
NEXT_DEV_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=http://192.168.0.22:3000
```

`NEXT_DEV_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` is a comma-separated list of origins allowed to
request Next.js assets in development, useful when testing from other LAN
devices.

## API Mappings

Dashboard views map to service APIs as follows:

- Nodes & Plans → Supervisor (`/v1/nodes/*`, `/v1/bootstrap/*`)
- Events → Broker topics (`overlay.*`, `capture.*`, `video.*`, `webapp.*`)
- Capture devices → capture-daemon API (`/hwcapture/*`)
- Jobs & Search → media-api (`/v1/*`)
- Trim / Idle Module → media-api (`/v1/trim_idle`)
- Observability → service `/health` and `/metrics` endpoints
- Credentials, Webhooks, Billing → api-gateway
- Access Control → api-gateway (`/credentials`)

All requests flow through the typed clients in `src/lib/api`, generated via `yarn run generate-api` for a single source of truth.

## Authentication

`AuthProvider` wraps the app and injects a bearer token into every API call via `src/lib/api`. Use it to handle login/logout and expose user context. Calling `logout()` also invokes NextAuth's `signOut` to clear server-side session cookies and redirect back to `/login`.
Google SSO is provided by NextAuth. Configure the following environment variables in `.env.local` or deployment secrets:

```
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=<32B random>
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=
TENANT_DEFAULT_ALLOWED_DOMAINS=cdaprod.dev,example.com
```

Users sign in at `/login` and manage personal details under `/account`.
The login page renders an official “Sign in with Google” button. Pass `dark` to
`<GoogleSignInButton>` when using a dark background.

When `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` are unset in development, the
app falls back to a basic email-only credentials provider so you can sign in
without configuring OAuth. The `/login` page automatically renders a simple
development form for signing in.

## Pairing local nodes

Local deployments pair with the cloud tenancy through an `auth-bridge` service.
Accessing tenant dashboards, access control or settings pages without a
`node_session` cookie automatically redirects to `/pair`. The pairing page shows
a short code and polling status; once the code is approved in the cloud UI, the
bridge sets the session cookie and redirects back to the requested page.


## Streaming protocol

`CameraMonitor` probes `/hwcapture/features` at runtime to determine whether the
capture-daemon exposes WebRTC. When available, it negotiates a WHEP session via
`/whep/<room>` to receive full‑res H.264 without transcoding; otherwise it falls
back to the HLS preview.

The monitor view automatically adjusts to device orientation. On portrait
screens the video fills the top of the display and controls stack beneath it,
eliminating the need to scroll.

Recording is controlled via simple HTTP calls:

```
curl -X POST http://<host>/daemon/record/start
curl -X POST http://<host>/daemon/record/stop
```

## Tenant routing

Pages are served under a dynamic `[tenant]` segment. Visiting
`/acme/dashboard` wraps the app in a `TenantProvider` so child components can
read the current tenant via `useTenant()`.

Visiting `/` automatically redirects to the user's default tenant dashboard or `/login` when no session is present.

```tsx
import { useTenant } from '@/providers/TenantProvider'

export function LinkToAssets() {
  const tenant = useTenant()
  return <a href={`/${tenant}/assets`}>Assets</a>
}
```

Components and API calls should incorporate this tenant when building URLs so
backend services can serve tenant‑specific resources or enforce authentication.

## Provisioning a Device

1. Navigate to **Dashboard → Camera Monitor**.
2. Click **Provision Device**.
3. Copy the displayed join command and run it on the target device. The modal watches `/api/claims/{id}/watch` and updates once the device connects.
